---
title: "You Don't Know JS Part 4"
desc: "Notes on the fourth day of reading through You Don't Know JS. Includes strict mode, scope, and let."
tags: "YDKJS"
author: "Scott LaForest"
date: "06/05/17"
---
All examples and notes are taken from the excellent and free to [read (online)](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS) series of books titled *You Don't Know JS* by Kyle Simpson.

## 6/5/17

### Scope

*use strict mode* it seems safer `use strict` it avoids the auto creation of a new variable in the global scope.


`ReferenceError` is Scope resolution-failure related, whereas `TypeError` implies that Scope resolution was successful, but that there was an illegal/impossible action attempted against the result.

**Scope look-up stops once it finds the first match.**

```javascript
function foo(a) {
	var b = 2;

	// some code

	function bar() {
		// ...
	}

	// more code

	var c = 3;
}
```
Because `a`, `b`, `c`, and `bar` all belong to the scope bubble of `foo(..)`, they are not accessible outside of `foo(..)`.

However, all these identifiers (a, b, c, foo, and bar) are accessible inside of foo(..), and indeed also available inside of bar(..) (assuming there are no shadow identifier declarations inside bar(..)).

**Do not use anonymous functions** i.e. `function(){...}` instead use:

**Inline function expressions** `function name(){...}`are powerful and useful -- the question of anonymous vs. named doesn't detract from that. Providing a name for your function expression quite effectively addresses all these draw-backs, but has no tangible downsides. The best practice is to always name your function expressions:

### let
i.e. block scoping like most other languages.

The `let` keyword attaches the variable declaration to the scope of whatever block (commonly a { .. } pair) it's contained in. In other words, `let` implicitly hijacks any block's scope for its variable declaration.
