---
title: "You Don't Know JS Part 5"
desc: "Notes on the fifth day of reading through You Don't Know JS. Includes more on closure, more on modules, and a lot on this."
tags: "YDKJS"
author: "Scott LaForest"
date: "06/06/17"
---

All examples and notes are taken from the excellent and free to [read (online)](https://github.com/getify/You-Dont-Know-JS) series of books titled *You Don't Know JS* by Kyle Simpson.

## 6/6/17

### More on Closure

Closure is when a function is able to remember and access its lexical scope even when that function is executing outside its lexical scope.

### More on Modules

Below is an example of a "Revealing Module". Requirements for modules:
1. It is just a function and must be invoked for every instance. *There must be an outer enclosing function, and it must be invoked at least once (each time creates a new module instance).*
2. Returns an object `{key:value,...}` with access to the 'public' functions but not the inner 'private' variables. Performs like a public API. *The enclosing function must return back at least one inner function, so that this inner function has closure over the private scope, and can access and/or modify that private state.*

```javascript
	var something = "cool";
	var another = [1, 2, 3];

	function doSomething() {
		console.log( something );
	}

	function doAnother() {
		console.log( another.join( " ! " ) );
	}

	return {
		doSomething: doSomething,
		doAnother: doAnother
	};
}

var foo = CoolModule();

foo.doSomething(); // cool
foo.doAnother(); // 1 ! 2 ! 3
```
Turn the function into an IIFE to create singleton objects.
```javascript
var foo = (function CoolModule() {
	var something = "cool";
	var another = [1, 2, 3];

	function doSomething() {
		console.log( something );
	}

	function doAnother() {
		console.log( another.join( " ! " ) );
	}

	return {
		doSomething: doSomething,
		doAnother: doAnother
	};
})();

foo.doSomething(); // cool
foo.doAnother(); // 1 ! 2 ! 3
```

### this

 **`this` is neither a reference to the function itself, nor is it a reference to the function's lexical scope**.

`this` is actually a binding that is made when a function is invoked, and what it **references is determined entirely by the call-site where the function is called.**

```javascript
function baz() {
    // call-stack is: `baz`
    // so, our call-site is in the global scope

    console.log( "baz" );
    bar(); // <-- call-site for `bar`
}

function bar() {
    // call-stack is: `baz` -> `bar`
    // so, our call-site is in `baz`

    console.log( "bar" );
    foo(); // <-- call-site for `foo`
}

function foo() {
    // call-stack is: `baz` -> `bar` -> `foo`
    // so, our call-site is in `bar`

    console.log( "foo" );
}

baz(); // <-- call-site for `baz`
```

Take care when analyzing code to find the actual call-site (from the call-stack), because it's the only thing that matters for this binding.

### this Binding rules
1. Default Binding: The default rule when all others do not apply.

   ```javascript
   function foo() {
	    console.log( this.a );
   }

   var a = 2;

   foo(); // 2
   ```
  Notice when `foo()` is called, `this.a` resolves to our global variable a. Why? Because in this case, the default binding for `this` applies to the function call, and so points `this` at the global object.

  If `strict` mode is in effect, the global object is not eligible for the default binding, so the `this` is instead set to undefined.

2. Implicit Binding (Left of the dot): Does the call-site have a context object, also referred to as an owning or containing object.

  ```javascript
  function foo() {
  	console.log( this.a );
  }

  var obj = {
  	a: 2,
  	foo: foo
  };

  obj.foo(); // 2
  ```
  The call-site uses the `obj` context to reference the function, so you could say that the `obj` object "owns" or "contains" the function reference at the time the function is called.

  Because `obj` is the `this` for the `foo()` call, `this.a` is synonymous with obj.a.

3. Explicit Binding: Directly stating what the `this` should be using either `call()`, `apply()`, or even `bind()`.

  `bind()` returns a function which will act like the original function but with `this` predefined. It is usually used when you want to pass a function to an event handler or other async callback.

  `call()` and `apply()` will call a function immediately letting you specify both the value of `this` and any arguments the function will receive. Difference between `call()` and `apply()` is both accept additional parameters but `call()` must specify each additional parameter separated by a comma. Whereas `apply()` can pass in an array of additional parameters.

4. New Binding: Using the `new` operator when creating a new variable. This does four things:

    1. Creates a brand new object (aka, constructed) out of thin air
    2. The newly constructed object is [[Prototype]]-linked
    3. The newly constructed object is set as the `this` binding for that function call
    4. Unless the function returns its own alternate object, the new-invoked function call will automatically return the newly constructed object.

```javascript
    function foo(a) {
    	this.a = a;
    }

    var bar = new foo( 2 );
    console.log( bar.a ); // 2
```

### Determining this

1. Is the function called with new (new binding)? If so, this is the newly constructed object.

  `var bar = new foo()`

2. Is the function called with `call` or `apply` (explicit binding), even hidden inside a `bind` hard binding? If so, `this` is the explicitly specified object.

  `var bar = foo.call( obj2 )`

3. Is the function called with a context (implicit binding), otherwise known as an owning or containing object? If so, `this` is that context object.

  `var bar = obj1.foo()`

4. Otherwise, default the `this` (default binding). If in `strict mode`, pick undefined, otherwise pick the global object.

  `var bar = foo()`
