---
title: "Learn with LaForest Notes"
desc: "Notes from my development of my classroom website. Includes service worker, CORS, and firebase gotchas."
tags: "firebase, service-worker"
author: "Scott LaForest"
date: "06/10/17"
---
# Learn with LaForest

This repository is my first attempt at a progressive web app. This app is my classroom website (I currently teach high school math and engineering). The app is hosted on firebase, [Learn with LaForest](https://learn-with-laforest.firebaseapp.com/), for the ease of deployment and data storage as well as PWA requirements of HTTP/2 and HTTPS default on firebase.


# Trials and Triumphs
- Implementing switching between classes via the menu button was my first challenge as I had a hard time getting the `addEventListener()` method to work correctly and pass the `this` value as well as a parameter. After researching more on the `bind()` method I realized that I can add args after the `this` parameter which will be prepended to the bound method. So for each menu item I passed the corresponding class name after the `this` parameter.  Example
```javascript
 this.showAlg1 = document.getElementById('showAlg1')
 this.showAlg1.addEventListener('click', this.clickedOn.bind(this, "Alg1"));
 ```
- Service-worker: CDNs at getmdl.io are not CORS supported. So I had to manually fetch them and then cache them thanks to the answer here by Jeff Posnick on [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/39109789/what-limitations-apply-to-opaque-responses/39109790#39109790).
Example
```javascript
const request = new Request('https://code.getmdl.io/1.3.0/material.deep_purple-yellow.min.css', {mode: 'no-cors'});
fetch(request).then(response => cache.put(request, response));
```
- Firebase DB- TIL that firebase saves data locally on all firebase clients [Firebase offline](https://firebase.google.com/docs/database/web/read-and-write#write_data_offline) . I was going to make a fetch then cache fetch event for the firebase databas url but this default functionality seems to work fine for offline.

- Struggling getting firebase messagine working with topics. First was using API key instead of SERVER_KEY which led to 401 responses. And also needed to prepend key= in the request header for the google iid api. Still receiving empty object for response on checking current topics.

- In order to show admin link only to admin (me) I created a child in the firebase db of `isAdmin`. The isAdmin child has children nodes for eadh admin id. I can then check the signed in user's id against the database.

  ```javascript
  this.database.ref('/isAdmin/').once('value').then(function(snapshot) {
    snapshot.forEach(function(childSnapshot) {
          if (childSnapshot.key.replace(/\"/g, "") === userId) {
            console.log("isAdmin");
            document.getElementById('showAdmin').removeAttribute("hidden");
          }
          else{
            document.getElementById('showAdmin').setAttribute('hidden', 'true');
          }
      });
  });
  ```
